README.md, before:

# Microscopy_Rheinberg Filters
An open source filter for a costume Rheinberg Filters hat can be adapted to any compound microscope.


![Screencast From 2025-10-15 00-50-51](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d98aec5b-f53b-496b-8a3e-7d3683af8342)


This 3D file is designed to be an optical filter for contrast illumination Technics for microscopy enthusiast and professionals.

The Idea is that you print so thin the filter that it would allow light to pass, the filter is just a position dark field idea of a  acting  filter for background color shift.

# Why Improve Contrast?
In microscopy, a lot of samples especially those that aren’t stained or are still alive have such low contrast that even with a good microscope lens, important details are hard to see. improving contrast is key to making these details visible without messing up or damaging the sample.

Using chemical dyes or fixatives can change the sample, so scientists have been trying to find ways to improve contrast in unstained samples without subjecting them to harsh chemicals or heat. While common tricks like closing the condenser aperture below 60% or lowering the substage condenser do boost contrast, they also reduce the sharpness and resolution of the image. So, looking for methods to enhance contrast that keep both the sample intact and the image clear is still the goal of all good microscopist.

# How to use it for 3D printing?


Simply download the correct STL file for your prints.

![Screencast From 2025-10-15 00-54-24](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e22325af-9d3c-45a7-a3f6-f576b3e7df05)



# Want to customize the design for your own specific objective or microscope?

> **Alternatively:**
>  You can download the OpenScad file (1 file for folder) and **very easily** edit each parameter of the filter.
 
- [ ] Download and install OpenScad (Free an open sofware for CAD files)
   - " https://openscad.org/downloads.html "
- [ ] Open the file using the program and look for parameters of the filter

    <img width="600" height="180" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2b5b19a5-1e32-407a-8524-bd4192ad69ff" />

- [ ] Simply edit to your needs
- [ ]  Rheinberg Filters THE COLOR OF YOUR MATERIAL IS THE COLOR YOU WANT IN YOUR FILTER
   - All measurement are in milimiters
- [ ] Generate a new STL file, save it and you are ready to print.



# How to use it for Laser cutting?

- [ ] Import the STL file into your laser cutting software:
   - Most popular laser cutting software supports importing STL files directly


- [ ] Set material properties:
    - THE COLOR OF YOUR MATERIAL IS THE COLOR YOU WANT IN YOUR FILTER
    - Input the thickness and type of material you'll be cutting
- [ ] Start the cutting

# How to use a spider stop ?

Most microscopes have a way to add a filter in the optical path between the ilumination and the condenser.


### How it looks, blue background!

<img width="300" height="200" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8579582f-fe65-4305-be71-96e5928e0bd5" />


Daphnia sp, 40x, Custume Rheinberg Filters

Commit message:

Enhance README with filter functionality description
Added a brief explanation of the filter's functionality.

README.md, after:

# Microscopy_Rheinberg Filters
> The idea is that your print is so thin that the filter would allow light to pass, the filter is just a dark field base idea for background color shift.

An open source filter for a costume Rheinberg Filters hat can be adapted to any compound microscope.


![Screencast From 2025-10-15 00-50-51](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d98aec5b-f53b-496b-8a3e-7d3683af8342)


This 3D file is designed to be an optical filter for contrast illumination Technics for microscopy enthusiast and professionals.

The Idea is that you print so thin the filter that it would allow light to pass, the filter is just a position dark field idea of a  acting  filter for background color shift.

# Why Improve Contrast?
In microscopy, a lot of samples especially those that aren’t stained or are still alive have such low contrast that even with a good microscope lens, important details are hard to see. improving contrast is key to making these details visible without messing up or damaging the sample.

Using chemical dyes or fixatives can change the sample, so scientists have been trying to find ways to improve contrast in unstained samples without subjecting them to harsh chemicals or heat. While common tricks like closing the condenser aperture below 60% or lowering the substage condenser do boost contrast, they also reduce the sharpness and resolution of the image. So, looking for methods to enhance contrast that keep both the sample intact and the image clear is still the goal of all good microscopist.

# How to use it for 3D printing?


Simply download the correct STL file for your prints.

![Screencast From 2025-10-15 00-54-24](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e22325af-9d3c-45a7-a3f6-f576b3e7df05)



# Want to customize the design for your own specific objective or microscope?

> **Alternatively:**
>  You can download the OpenScad file (1 file for folder) and **very easily** edit each parameter of the filter.
 
- [ ] Download and install OpenScad (Free an open sofware for CAD files)
   - " https://openscad.org/downloads.html "
- [ ] Open the file using the program and look for parameters of the filter

    <img width="600" height="180" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2b5b19a5-1e32-407a-8524-bd4192ad69ff" />

- [ ] Simply edit to your needs
- [ ]  Rheinberg Filters THE COLOR OF YOUR MATERIAL IS THE COLOR YOU WANT IN YOUR FILTER
   - All measurement are in milimiters
- [ ] Generate a new STL file, save it and you are ready to print.



# How to use it for Laser cutting?

- [ ] Import the STL file into your laser cutting software:
   - Most popular laser cutting software supports importing STL files directly


- [ ] Set material properties:
    - THE COLOR OF YOUR MATERIAL IS THE COLOR YOU WANT IN YOUR FILTER
    - Input the thickness and type of material you'll be cutting
- [ ] Start the cutting

# How to use a spider stop ?

Most microscopes have a way to add a filter in the optical path between the ilumination and the condenser.


### How it looks, blue background!

<img width="300" height="200" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8579582f-fe65-4305-be71-96e5928e0bd5" />


Daphnia sp, 40x, Custume Rheinberg Filters
